# Using 3rd Party Terminals with the Coral Board

The mendel-development-tool (MDT) takes care of ssh key pair generation and usage but, unfortuntely, the Windows Command Line (used to run MDT) provides a lackluster linux terminal experience once connected to the Coral board.

Few of the features Windows CMD lacks when using MDT:
*Cursor positioning (typically accomplished with ctrl + left or right keys)
*Access to past commands (typically accomplished with the up and down keys)
*Terminal-based user interfaces (like those used in the nmtui network config tool)

There are plenty of 3rd party terminals and ssh tools available that yield a nicer user experience. This guide shows how to use the ssh key generated by MDT within PuTTY, but similar steps will apply when working with other tools.

**Convert the Private Key to PuTTY Format (.ppk)**
1. Locate the existing private key used by MDT - located at C:\Users\[your username]\.config\mdt\keys\mdt.key by default.
2. Open PuTTYgen.
3. Click "Load" within PuTTYgen.
4. Navigate to the key directory.
5. Select "All Files (*.*)" in the navigation window dropdown.
6. Open the "mdt.key" private ssh key file.
7. Back in the main PuTTYgen window, click "Save private key".

**Select the Key for Use within PuTTY**
1. Open PuTTY.
2. Within the "Connection" category, select "SSH" and then "Auth".
3. Under "Private key file for authentification:", select "Browse".
4. Select the private key (in .ppk format) generated in the last set of steps.


**Save Session Settings for Future Connections**
1. Select the "Session" category and specificy a SSH connection on Port 22.
2. Enter the Coral board IP under "Host Name" (192.168.101.2 by default).
3. Under "Saved Sessions", type "Coral' (or whatever you want name the saved session) and click "Save".

To quickly connect to the Coral board through PuTTY, select "Coral" from the list of saved sessions and click "Open".
